Name: Martha Griffiths---Year: 1954---Headline: 1954 - Mother of Equal Rights Amendment EEOC founder---Quote: All I want to be is human and American and have all the same rights and I will shut up.---Bio: Martha Griffiths grew up in rural Missouri as the daughter of a mail carrier. She served as a lawyer and judge before transitioning to politics. In 1946, she made her first run for a seat in the Michigan legislature and lost. She remained determined and won her bid on the second run. In 1954, she became the first woman elected to the U.S. Congress from Michigan as a member of the Democratic Party. In Congress, Griffiths was known for her sharp intellect and blunt language. She worked to protect and extend women’s rights; she fought for the inclusion of sex as a category under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In addition, she advocated for the Equal Rights Amendment, which had been debated since the 1920’s. After her time in Congress, Griffiths continued to remain active in politics; she served as the first woman elected to be Lieutenant Governor of Michigan. The legacy that she leaves behind is a long political career serving as a fierce advocate for women’s rights.---Picture1: /images/photos/0425-01.jpeg ---Official_Website: http://history.house.gov/People/Detail/14160?ret=True---TAKE_THE_LEAD:--Profile--Name: Rosa Parks---Year: 1955---Headline: 1955 - Civil rights activist---Quote: At the time I was arrested I had no idea it would turn into this. It was just a day like any other day. The only thing that made it significant was that the masses of the people joined in.---Bio: Rosa Parks is often called the “mother of the Freedom Movement” because of her act of resilience on a segregated bus in Montgomery, Alabama. On December 1st, 1955, Parks was told by the bus driver and a white man to give up her seat simply because she was a black woman. Parks refused and was arrested for defying segregation laws. Her action sparked the Montgomery Bus Boycott. As a child, Parks was familiar with racism. She witnessed the Ku Klux Klan march down her street, in front of her home where she lived with her mother, younger brother, and grandparents. After Parks was arrested for refusing to give up her seat, she lost her job as a seamstress and faced tough economic times. But she remained resilient and dedicated her to life to civil rights. She went on to work with African American U.S. Representative John Conyers and start the Rosa L. Parks Scholarship Foundation for college-bound high school students. In 2005, she passed away at the age of 92.---Picture1: /images/photos/blogs-rp-500x280-v01.jpeg---Official_website: http://rosaparks.org/---TAKE_THE_LEAD:Rosa Parks saw an injustice and called it out. She also faced hard economic times due to losing her job as a seamstress and remained active in the struggle for civil rights. Is there a time in your life when you have felt that there was an injustice? Did you do something about it? Why or why not?--Profile--Name: Yuri Kochiyama---Year: 1960---Headline: 1960 – Human rights activist, Joined Organization for Afro-American Unity ---Quote:I would like to say a few things to my grands. First and foremost, you do not have to live up to or emulate the lives of your predecessors. But at the very least, you should know about them. You will have your own life, interests, and ideas of what you want or do not want in life. Do what you enjoy doing. Be honest with yourself and others. Don’t think of satisfying anyone: your elders, peers, government, religion, or children who will come after you. Develop meaningful ideals, and become conscious of others, their existence, and their lives.---Quote_Citation: Yuri Kochiyama memoir, Passing It On---Bio:Yuri Kochiyama is a human rights activist. She served in Women's Women's Army Corps and at the Aloha USO, which served Hawai'i soldiers after her family was interned during Japanese American internment in 1942. She is also well known member of the Organization for Afro-Unity. She held Malcolm X, an African American human rights activist in her arms after he was assassinated. She has mentored many Asian Americans and stood against injustice of political prisoners such as Mumia Abu-Jamal. She was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005.---Official_website: http://history.house.gov/People/Detail/10918?ret=True---Picture1: /images/photos/YuriKochiyama.jpeg---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Great leaders like Yuri Kochiyama are fearless. Name a time in your life where you overcame a fear. Why do you think it is important to face your fears?--Profile--Name: Patsy Mink---Year: 1964---Headline: 1964 - Elected into Congress as first woman of color and was also the first Asian American to  run for President of the United States---Quote:What you endure is who you are. And if you just accept and do nothing, then life goes on, but if you see it as a way for change. Life doesn't have to be so unfair. I can't change the past, but I certainly can help someone in the future so they don’t have to go through what I did.---Bio:Patsy Mink was a pioneering advocate on various women's issues including equal rights. One of her major victories was the passage of Title IX of the 1972 Education Amendments, which opened up opportunities for women in athletics. Mink is also the first Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) to run for President of U.S. ---Picture1: /images/photos/patsy_mink%20profile_cropped.jpeg---Official_Website: http://womenincongress.house.gov/member-profiles/profile.html?intID=173---TAKE_THE_LEAD:Patsy Mink was the first Asian American to run for President of the United States. Have you ever dared to do something others told you that you could not achieve and succeeded? How would you encourage girls to do the same?--Profile--Name: Dolores Huerta---Year: 1965---Headline: 1965 - Civil rights activist and labor leader, led grape strike with Cesar Chavez and Philip Vera Cruz ---Quote:Walk the street with us into history. Get off the sidewalk.---Place_of_birth: Dawson, New Mexico---Ethnicity:---Bio:Dolores Huerta is a labor and civil rights activist. A daughter of a community activist, farmworker and California States Assemblyman, she most famously worked with Cesar Chavez and Filipino American leader Philip Vera Cruz and was key in organizing the Delano Grape Strike that lead to collective bargaining rights for farmworkers throughout the state. She grew up in Stockton, California, among a diverse community of working families who were mostly of Mexican, Filipino, African American, Japanese, and Chinese heritage. Her awareness and activism was sparked by the seeing all of the migrant farmworkers, who were poor and suffered low wages and bad living conditions at the hands of growers. Huerta earned a teaching credential from University of Pacific’s Delta College, but left teaching to pursue organizing and working towards farmworkers’ rights. The Delano Grape Strike proved victorious and the plight of farm workers gained visibility. Presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy acknowledged Huerta’s help in his victory at the 1968 California Democratic Presidential Primary, just prior to his tragic death. She has been awarded countless accolades, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2012 by President Obama.---Official_website: http://www.doloreshuerta.org/---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Dolores Huerta grew up in a diverse area where she learned about the value of multiple perspectives. Share a story or do a good deed where you express understanding and respect for another culture.---Picture1: /images/photos/DoloresHuerta.jpeg--Profile--Name: Yvonne Brathwaite Burke---Year: 1966---Headline: 1966 - First African American/Black woman elected to CA State Legislature and House of Rep’s. First Congressional Black Caucus chair ---Picture1: /images/photos/burke-yvonne.jpeg---Quote:I came along at a time when there was a demand to give men greater visibility and opportunity. In white society they were saying, ‘Women can't do it.’ In black society, they were saying, ‘Women do too much.’ It's a diabolical situation. ---Bio:Yvonne Watson was born on October 5, 1932, in Los Angeles California to James Watson, custodian at the MGM film studios, and Lola (Moore) Watson, a real-estate agent in East Los Angeles.Burke earned a B.A. in political science from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1953. She was among the first black women to be admitted to the University of Southern California School of Law. She graduated and passed the California bar in 1956. After law school, she entered into her own private practice while serving as the state’s deputy corporation commissioner and as a hearing officer for the Los Angeles Police Commission. Burke organized a legal defense team for Watts rioters in 1965 and was named by Governor Edmond Brown to the McCone Commission, which investigated the conditions which led to the riot.Burke became the first African American woman elected to the California State Assembly in 1966. In 1972, she was elected to Congress and served until 1978. In June 1979, she was appointed to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, by California Governor Jerry Brown. During this time, she was also a partner at Jones Day, a position she held from 1987 to 1993. In 1984, Ms. Burke was the vice chair of the Los Angeles Olympics Organizing Committee. In 1992, she won election to the board from a different district, becoming the first woman and first member of a racial minority group to chair the board.In 2008, Burke retired from the Board of Supervisors after 16 years, and in 2012 served as a member of the Office of Congressional Ethics and the California Transportation Commission, appointed by former Speaker Nancy Pelosi.Ms. Burke currently serves on the AMTRAK Board of Directors.---Official_ Website: http://womenincongress.house.gov/member-profiles/profile.html?intID=28---facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Yvonne-Brathwaite-Burke/108280855858727?rf=110884715606485---TAKE_THE_LEAD:Yvonne Burke was among the first black women to be admitted to a prestigious institute of higher education. How does it feel to be the first to do something? How can you learn and grow from such an experience?--Profile--Name: Shirley Chisholm---Year: 1972---Headline: 1972 - First African American woman in elected into Congress---Quote: Of my two handicaps, being female put many more obstacles in my path than being black.---Bio: The daughter of immigrant parents, Shirley Chisholm was the first African American woman to be elected to Congress. She spent the majority of her childhood raised by her maternal grandmother in Barbados. In 1964, Chisholm ran for New York legislature and won. During her time in Congress, she advocated for increase spending on education, health, and social services. In 1972, she placed her bid for the Democratic Party’s presidential nomination. During her campaign she survived 3 assassination attempts, and was widely supported by women and diverse communities. Although she did not win the bid, Chisholm continued to play an active role in politics. After retirement from Congress, she worked on Jesse Jackson’s presidential campaign.---Picture1: /images/photos/Shirley-Chisholm.jpeg---Official_Website:http://history.house.gov/People/Detail/10918?ret=True---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Do you have ambitions to run for office for your local government or even for President? List down top five qualities you believe a public service leader should possess and how you can go about achieving them.--Profile--Name: Barbara Mikulski---Year: 1976---Headline:1976 - Elected into House of Representatives, First Democratic Woman to Serve in Both Houses of Congress / In the 112th Congress, The Longest-Serving Woman in Senate History---Quote:When I came to the United States Senate, although I was all by myself, I said I was never alone because of the wonderful way the men have supported me. The history of women in the Senate is short. I might add, 4-foot-11 short. But everything we've done, we have been able to work on together. ---Bio:Barbara Mikulski grew up in East Baltimore, Maryland. She became a social worker, helping children and educating seniors about Medicare. She became active in her community in other ways: she successfully organized communities against the building of a highway through Baltimore’s Fells Point neighborhood.She ran for Baltimore City Council in 1971, where she served for five years. In 1976, she ran for Congress and won-- representing Maryland’s 3rd district for 10 years. In 1986, she ran for Senate and won. This is when she became the first Democratic woman to serve in both houses of Congress. She was re-elected in 1992, 1998, 2004, and 2010. On March 17, 2012, she became the longest serving woman in the history of the United States Congress.Ms. Mikulski serves as a mentor to other women Senators when they first take office, as Dean of the Women.---Official_website: http://www.mikulski.senate.gov---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Senator Mikulski was a social worker and lived to serve her community. Think of a project you’d like to do for a social cause and form a group of people to help you make that idea a reality. ---Twitter: https://twitter.com/SenatorBarb---Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/SenatorMikulski---Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/user/senatormikulski---Picture1: /images/photos/SenatorMikulski.jpeg--Profile--Name: Bella Savitzky Abzug---Year: 1976---Headline:1976 - First Woman to Run for the U.S. Senate from New York---Quote:This woman’s place is in the House … the House of Representatives!” ---Bio:Bella (Savitzky) Abzug was born in the Bronx, New York on July 24, 1920, to Russian-Jewish immigrants, Emmanuel and Esther Tanklefsky Savitsky. She received an A.B. from Hunter College in 1942, where she was student body president. Upon graduation, entered Columbia University Law School. She served as editor of the Columbia Law Review and graduated with an LL.B in 1947.She would go on to represent the West Side of Manhattan for three Congressional terms.In 1970, at age 50, Abzug made her first attempt at elected office, upon deciding to enter the race for a House of Representatives seat to represent Manhattan’s wealthy, liberal Upper West Side. She ran on an antiwar and pro-feminist platform. On the first day of session of the 92nd Congress, Abzug introduced legislation demanding the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Vietnam. She also co-authored several historic bills, including Title IX, a bill which prohibits discrimination based on sex in educational opportunities by schools which receive Federal funding assistance. Today, many women and girls, who play high school and college sports, may be aware that Title IX affects athletics.In 1974, Abzug defeated her GOP opponent, Stephen Posner, with 79 percent of the vote. Her most noteworthy contributions include the “sunshine” laws under the Freedom of Information Act, which required government hearings to be held in public. She also introduced legislation aimed at increasing the rights of the Lesbian Gay Bi Transgender Queer (LGBTQ) community through amending the Civil Rights Act of 1964. She later led worthy campaigns for Senator in 1976, the New York City Democratic mayoral nomination in 1977, and for Congresswoman to represent Westchester County in 1986. She may not have won these positions, but in 1978, President Jimmy Carter named her the co-chair of the National Advisory Committee on Women.Since then, she addressed international women’s conferences in Beijing, Nairobi, and Copenhagen. She worked to give women’s issues more prominence on the United Nations’ agenda through establishing the Women USA Fund and the Women’s Environment and Development Organization (WEDO). From 1993 to 1995, Ms. Abzug served as chair of the Commission on the Status of Women, appointed by New York City Mayor David Dinkins.On March 31, 1998, Abzug died due to breast cancer and heart disease. A year before her death, Ms. Abzug received the Blue Beret Peacekeepers Award, the highest civilian recognition and honor at the United Nations. Her legacy and dedication to civil rights lives on.---Picture1: /images/photos/abzug-bella.jpeg---Official_website:http://history.house.gov/People/Detail/8276?ret=True---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Bella raised awareness about issues affecting women throughout the world. Why is important to learn and speak with people from other countries to understand how women and girls can make the world a better place?--Profile--Name: Helen Zia---Year: 1982---HEADLINE: 1982 - Activist defending Vincent Chin & the pioneer in Asian American national movement---Quote:Individually, the chance to do something with your life, even, no matter how big or small to make a change, to improve the world around us, to leave it a little better today than you came in yesterday, should be an opportunity everyone should grab for.---Bio: Helen Zia is an award-winning journalist and activist. She has covered Asian American communities and social and political movements for more than twenty years. Born in New Jersey and a graduate of Princeton's first co-educational class. When Vincent Chin, a Chinese American, was murdered on the eve of his wedding in Detroit, Michigan in 1982, Zia was key in publicizing the case, framing it as a hate crime, and acting as a spokesperson for his family. She framed the case as a Civil Rights issue that impacted Asian Americans as well as all American communities. She has since continued to champion the rights of others such as Wen Ho Lee and has been an outspoken advocate for marriage equality.---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Have you ever done something positive that seemed small but had lasting impact? Helen Zia says that we all have the chance to improve the world. What is a small thing you can do to improve the lives of those around you today?---Picture1: /images/photos/Helen_Zia.jpeg--Profile--Name: Sheila Jackson Lee---Year: 1994---Headline: 1994 - African American Southern Leader Elected to Congress---Quote:The greatness of Americans is that we are mosaic - we are diverse.---Bio: Sheila represents the 18th Congressional District of Texas. Also, Sheila served on the House Science committee and on the subcommittee that oversees space exploration policy and NASA. One of the main issues she is passionate about is border security and immigration policy. She is on the committee on Homeland Security working on those issues.---Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Congresswoman-Sheila-Jackson-Lee/169479190984---TAKE_THE_LEAD:---Picture1: /images/photos/jackson_lee_tx_dist18.jpeg--Profile--Name: Barbara Lee---Year: 1998---Headline: 1998 - First African American woman to represent California's 13th District in East Bay Area---Quote: Democratic women in Congress have been a powerful reminder of the critical role women legislators play in advocating for women and families. I often write about this, but this week I invite you to watch and listen to these women themselves. Their words of passion, conviction, and courage continue to protect our freedoms, our health, and our families.---Bio: Barbara Lee is a national leader in advancing women’s equality in American politics. She was a young single mother of two receiving public assistance when she began attending college. In 2003, she was awarded 'special recognition' as a Woman of Peace at the Global Exchange Human Rights Awards.Today, through strategic advice, candidate training, direct support, and voter mobilization, Barbara has helped elect every sitting Democratic woman governor and U.S. Senator. Barbara Lee gives women candidates at all levels essential tools to meet the challenges of campaigning.With an exceptional eye for emerging leadership, she also works to cultivate the next generation of women candidates. She serves as Advisory Council Chair for Emerge Massachusetts, an intensive political training program for Democratic women and a program Barbara brought to the Commonwealth.---Picture1: /images/photos/barbara-lee-black-caucus-chair-111908-by-alex-wong-getty-images.jpeg---Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RepBarbaraLee---Twitter: https://twitter.com/RepBarbaraLee---TAKE_THE_LEAD:--Profile--Name: Lucille Roybal-Allard---Year: 1999---Headline: 1999 - First Congressional Hispanic Caucus Female Chair, First Mexican American Woman Elected to U.S. Congress---Quote:Working together, we can ensure that our daughters and granddaughters enjoy every possible opportunity.---Bio:Lucille Royball-Allard was born on June 12, 1941 in Boyle Heights, Los Angeles County to Lucille Beserra Roybal and Congressman Edward R. Royball, who was a Member of Congress for 30 years. Lucille graduated from the California State University at Los Angeles in 1965.From 1987 to 1992, Lucille was a member of the California State Assembly. She served as chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation in 1997 and 1998. In the 106th Congress (1999-2000), she became the first female Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.She serves on the Appropriations Committee, and on the Homeland Security and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittees. She is passionate about increasing access to health care, affordable housing, good schools, and a livable federal minimum wage. She is currently Chair of the Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Health.---Official_website: http://roybal-allard.house.gov/---TAKE_THE_LEAD:---Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RepRoybalAllard---Twitter: https://twitter.com/RepRoybalAllard---Picture1: /images/photos/07f2388f-9a37-4153-8eae-0f183667f3a1.jpeg--Profile--Name: Yvette Clarke---Year: 2007---Headline: 2007 - Elected to Congress---Quote: Stay focused on the dream. Don’t pay attention to those who would discredit or throw cold water on your aspirations. Stay focused on accomplishing your goals and to look for other individuals who are eager and just as ambitious, or who have accomplished what you are trying to accomplish. Reach out to them through social networking and use what they have done as a source of motivation for yourself.---Bio: Yvette Clarke began her political career by succeeding her mother in the New York City Council in 2001. Her mother held the seat for more than a decade! Now she is a U.S. Representative for New York's 9th congressional district.Representative Clarke is a first generation American; her mother and her father were born in Jamaica. She lived her entire life in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Flatbush.  Known for her commitment to environmental causes, Rep. Clarke received 100% ratings from Environment America, The League of Conservation Voters, and the Sierra Club in 2011. She served as the chair of the United States House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology, and is committed to women’s and anti-poverty causes.---Picture1: /images/photos/398px-Yvette_Clarke_Official.jpeg---twitter: https://twitter.com/YvetteClarke---facebook: https://www.facebook.com/repyvettedclarke--Profile--Name: Tam Ngoc Tran---Year: 2007---Headline: 2007 - Testified before Congress on the DREAM Act ---Quote: ‘Her courage to speak on behalf of other students demonstrates that silence is a habit that can be broken.’---Quote_Citation: Undocumented & Unafraid: Tam Tran, Cinthya Felix, and the Immigrant Youth Movement, Angela Chuan-Ru Chen & Tracy Lachica Buenavista---Ethnicity: Vietnamese American---Place_of_Birth: Germany---Status: Citizen of the World---Bio:Tam was the armed girl with a camera, an aspiring filmmaker and immigrant rights activist. Tam called herself a citizen of the world. Tam fought her whole life for her citizenship. Since she was born in Germany and was a Vietnamese American refugee, she claimed neither Germany or Vietnam as her home county and remained stateless. In May 2007, Tam testified before Congress advocating for the Development Relief Education for Alien Minor (DREAM) Act. Her family was detained days after her outspoken testimony. Though silence was seen as a form of protection for many Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) immigrant communities, her fierce nature defied the stereotype of Asian American women as silent and passive people. Tam is known for her documentary films shedding light on the undocumented youth experience, in Lost and Found and the Seattle Underground Railroad in 2007. She was the first non-Chicano/Latino member of IDEAS at UCLA. Before she passed away, Tam was completing her Ph.D. at Brown University in American Studies, where she founded the Brown Immigrant Rights Coalition (BIRC). Additional Notes: Tam and Cinthya were one of the earliest pioneers of the undocumented immigrant youth movement. “At a time when saying “I am undocumented” was a radical statement, they said it with pride.” -University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) IDEAS (Improving Dreams, Equality, Access, and Success) Both were members of the UCLA IDEAS (Improving Dreams, Equality, Access, and Success). They were among one of the first undocumented immigrant youth to graduate from college and enter to graduate school. They advocated for the federal and California state DREAM Act legislation, which would allow undocumented immigrant youth to access federal financial aid to pursue education, a pathway to citizenship and working legally in the United States. As much as their long list of accomplishments, friends remember the two best friends as big sisters to those they mentored, whether they were younger siblings or other students. They remember them as hard-working young women who also liked to play basketball, shop, and listen to Radiohead in their spare time just like any other college student.  Unfortunately in 2010, Tam and Cinthya passed away in a car accident. Tam and Cinthya lived fighting for the DREAM Act.---TAKE_THE_LEAD:Tam and Cinthya were remembered by their courageous actions and voices, which has helped many other undocumented youth continue their path in their lives. When have you felt like voicing your opinion or taking action against injustice that impacted your life or others?---Picture1: /images/photos/DREAMTamCinthya.jpeg--Profile--Name: Cinthya Nathalie Felix Perez---Year: 2007---Headline: 2007 - IDEAS leader ---Picture1: /images/photos/DREAMTamCinthya.jpeg---Ethnicity: Mexican American---Place_of_Birth: Mexico ---Status: Citizen of the World---Quote: ‘When young activists were overwhelmed with passion and frustration, she provided counsel and instruction on how to move forward.’---Quote_Citation: Friends On Cinthya Felix Perez ---Bio: Cinthya was a role model for her community. Cinthya was a top student in Mexico and when she was still young, excelled at her English as a Second Language (ESL), and graduated 5th in her high school class. While Tam was the first AAPI in IDEAS, Cinthya grew up playing basketball in a Japanese American girls league. Cinthya was among the first wave of students to benefit from Assembly Bill 540 (AB 540), which would allow undocumented immigrant youth to pay in-state tuition for college. Cinthya encouraged many young immigrant youth to seek assistance through AB 540 and assisted others in college application processes. Cinthya aspired to become a doctor serving low income immigrant communities, but was barred from medical school for not being a documented resident. She did not give up on her dreams and sought to pursue a Master’s Degree in Public Health at Columbia University. She fought for a scholarship into Columbia University, since even public schools like UCLA were unable to legally grant federal financial aid to undocumented students. Even with her scholarship, Cinthya maintained working a full time jobs as well as her academic courseload as a full time student. Her strong work ethic and determination was admirable. After Cinthya had passed, Columbia University granted her a posthumous Master’s Degree in Public Health.  Additional Notes: Tam and Cinthya were one of the earliest pioneers of the undocumented immigrant youth movement. Quote: “At a time when saying “I am undocumented” was a radical statement, they said it with pride.” -University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) IDEAS (Improving Dreams, Equality, Access, and Success) Both were members of the UCLA IDEAS (Improving Dreams, Equality, Access, and Success). They were among one of the first undocumented immigrant youth to graduate from college and enter to graduate school. They advocated for the federal and California state DREAM Act legislation, which would allow undocumented immigrant youth to access federal financial aid to pursue education, a pathway to citizenship and working legally in the United States. As much as their long list of accomplishments, friends remember the two best friends as big sisters to those they mentored, whether they were younger siblings or other students. They remember them as hard-working young women who also liked to play basketball, shop, and listen to Radiohead in their spare time just like any other college student.  ---TAKE_THE_LEAD:Tam and Cinthya were remembered by their courageous actions and voices, which has helped many other undocumented youth continue their path in their lives. When have you felt like voicing your opinion or taking action against injustice that impacted your life or others?--Profile--Name: Mona Pasquil---Year: 2009---Headline: 2009 - Appointed as 1st Filipina and Asian American Acting Lt. Governor of California---Quote:  ‘I didn’t know girls could have an office like this,’ the wide-eyed youngster said, impressing on Pasquil the fact that there are ‘kids today who still don’t know what they can become until they see it.’ That encounter led to one of Pasquil’s mantras: ‘You can be anything you want to be.’---Bio: Mona Pasquil currently serves as the California Appointments Secretary. Mona also served as Chief of Staff for Lt. Governor Garamendi, who ran for Congress. Garamendi appointed her the position of Acting Lt. Governor of California in 2009, making her the first the first Filipina American and first Asian American to be appointed to this statewide executive level position. Her career also includes diverse experiences, from serving as Western States political director under former President Bill Clinton, a strategic consultant at IBM.---Picture1: /images/photos/mona_pasquil.jpeg---TAKE_THE_LEAD:Mona was bullied a young child. After college she became more vocal and involved in politics. Leaders learn to deal with and rise above their circumstances. What circumstances do you need to overcome right now? --Profile--Name: Judy May Chu (趙美心)---Year: 2009 ---Headline: 2009 - First Chinese American Elected to Congress---Ethnicity: Chinese American---Place_of_Birth: Los Angeles---Quote: ---Bio: Prior to holding public offfice, Judy Chu earned a B.A. in mathematics from the University of California Los Angeles and a Ph.D. in psychology from the California School of Professional Psychology. She began her career as an educator and taught psychology classes at Los Angeles City College and East Los Angeles College for 20 years. She later held positions in local and state elected office prior to her special election win for Congress in 2009 and election to a full term in 2010. In 1985, she was elected to Garvey School District Board of Education. She then held a succession of public offices: serving on the Monterey Park City Council, Mayor of Monterey Park, California Assemblywoman and a post on the California State Board of Equalization. In the 112th Congress, she served on the House Judiciary Committee, where served as a member of the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security and the Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet subcommittees. She also served as a member of the House Small Business Committee, where she leads the Contracting and Workforce subcommittee as Ranking Democrat and serves on the Economic Growth, Tax and Capital Access and Agriculture, Energy and Trade Subcommittees. In 2011, she became Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC).During her time in Congress, Dr. Chu has sponsored a bill for an apology for those Chinese Americans adversely affected by the Chinese Exclusion Act. She has also fought to prevent the funding of Planned Parenthood. A granddaughter of immigrants, Dr. Chu is also a strong advocate for immigration reform. She was an original co-sponsor of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform (CIR-ASAP) bill introduced by Rep. Luis Gutierrez in 2011.---Picture1: /images/photos/I_283_0001_026.jpeg---Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RepJudyChu---Twitter: https://twitter.com/RepJudyChu--Profile--Name: Michelle Obama---Year: 2009---Headline: 2009 - Became First African American First Lady---Quote: Because today, I know from experience that if I truly want to leave a better world for my daughters, and for all of our sons and daughters, if -- if we want to give all of our children a foundation for their dreams, and opportunities worthy of their promise, if we want to give them a sense of that limitless possibility, their belief that here in America, there is always something better out there if you are willing to work for it, then we must work like never before, and we must once again come together, and stand together for the man we can trust to keep moving this great country forward.---Quote_Citation: Democratic National Convention (DNC) Speech, September 4th, 2012---Bio: Michelle Obama is the first African American First Lady of the United States. Michelle traces her lineage to pre-Civil War African Americans. Her great grandparents were slaves in South Carolina. Michelle was salutatorian of her high school and went on to study African American Studies at Princeton University. She continued her education, earning her J.D. at at Harvard Law School. She is a lawyer, public servant, and mother. As First Lady, one of Michelle's notable projects "Let's Move" focuses on nutrition, helping kids get access to eating healthier foods. She has also brought national attention to issues of childhood obesity and poverty. She is also known for being a fashion trendsetter like her predecessors, former First Lady Jackie Kennedy.---TAKE_THE_LEAD:---Picture1: /images/photos/Michelle Obama _CSMonitor_DNC.jpeg--Profile--Name: Hillary Rodham Clinton---Year: 2009---Headline: 2009 - Appointed as Secretary of State, former First Lady---Quote: "Every one of you has your own story of challenges overcome and barriers broken, because all over the world, women still face obstacles to political and economic participation. Cultural traditions, legal barriers, social pressures stop women from pursuing an education or starting a business or certainly running for office. And there aren’t enough mentors and role models...Now, the numbers on participation tell the story. Women hold less than 20 percent of all seats in parliaments and legislatures around the world. I’m sorry to say, here in the United States, our percentage is even a little lower, at 17 percent. And it’s not just politics. Only 3 percent of Fortune 500 CEOs are women. And I always think to myself: What a waste, because the world cannot miss out on the talents and contributions of half the population.But these numbers tell only part of the story. We need better data and more rigorous research that documents the impact women have on in public service and the obstacles that still prevent us from contributing." -Remarks at the Opening of the Inaugural Women in Public Service Institute at Wellesley College, June 11th, 2012---Bio: Hillary Clinton is the current Secretary of State, making her one of 42 women who have held cabinet level positions to date. She previously served as Senator of New York from 2001-2009. She was also First Lady during her husband's presidency, Bill Clinton from 1993-2001. Clinton first garnered national attention when she gave the graduation speech at Wellesley College in 1969.---Picture1:  /images/photos/HillaryClinton.jpeg---TAKE_THE_LEAD:--Profile--Name: Hilda Solis---Year: 2009---Headline: 2009 - First Latina American appointed as Cabinet Member as Secretary of Labor---Quote: Volunteer, get involved in your community. I really do mean that because that is something that, I mean, whether you’re applying for college or applying for a job, people want to know where do you put your priorities. Are you volunteering for a cause? Are you helping your neighborhood? Are you tutoring low income kids? What are you doing with that extra time that you have? I think that’s really important for young people in high school. And then attach yourself to other folks that you want to learn from, that you think you can learn something from.---Bio: A high school guidance counselor once told Hilda Solis she was not college material and should lower her sights and become a secretary. Thirty years later, she could say her title was secretary - OF LABOR.As the 25th U.S. Secretary of Labor, Secretary Solis was the first, Latina woman appointed to a cabinet position. She was also the first in her family to go to college. Solis was raised in La Puente, California, by parents who immigrated from Nicaragua and Mexico. She graduated from California State Polytechnic University, Pomona and the University of Southern California (USC) and worked for two federal agencies in Washington, DC before being elected to the State Senate in California. She was the first Latina woman to serve in the State Senate, was re-elected in 1998, and was first female recipient of the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award in 2000 for environmental legislation she helped pass.President Obama appointed Solis in 2009 to his cabinet and since then, Solis has presided over a tough economic climate with high unemployment. President Obama has praised Solis, as “a tireless champion for working families” during “the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.”   Solis will not serve in President Obama’s second term, as she has resigned “to begin a new future, and return to the people and places I love and that have inspired and shaped my life.” She stated via Twitter, “My mission over the past 4 years has been to help people and make a difference.” She will return to her native California, and it is reported she may run for office in Los Angeles, most likely for a seat on the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors.---twitter: https://twitter.com/HildaSolisDOL---facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/hildasolis---Picture1: /images/photos/l-zachnew-solis.jpeg---TAKE_THE_LEAD: How do you motivate your friends when someone puts them down? Did you know that a high school counselor told Hilda Solis to lower her sights and consider becoming a secretary? That is a noble profession, but Solis had told her counselor that she wanted to be something else! How does it feel when you accomplish something you set your mind to? --Profile--Name: Kathleen Sebelius---Year: 2009---Headline: 2009 - Appointed to serve as 21st Secretary of Health and Human Services---Quote: American women have changed the landscape of scientific health research, medicine, and public health, and this year’s theme for Women’s History Month, ‘Women’s Education – Women’s Empowerment,’ gives us the opportunity to reflect specifically on the contributions of a few trailblazers within our Department who during their lives made the education and empowerment of women a priority.---Bio: Sebelius successfully built upon her popularity and in January 2006 was tied for 20th most popular governor in the country. In February 2006, the White House Project named Sebelius one of its "8 in '08," a group of eight female politicians who could possibly run and/or be elected president in 2008.As head of Health & Human Services, the former governor of Kansas is the person in charge of implementing ObamaCare. Sebelius' decisions will shape American lives--and the insurance, medical and pharmaceutical industries--for decades.---Twitter: https://twitter.com/Sebelius---Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Kathleen-Sebelius/6361896707---Picture1: /images/photos/Kathleen_Sebelius_alternate_HHS_portrait.jpeg---Official_website: http://www.hhs.gov/secretary/index.html\---TAKE_THE_LEAD: --Profile--Name: Sonia Sotomayor---Year: 2009---Headline: 2009 - First Latina American Chief Justice---Place_of_birth:---Ethnicity: Puerto Rican American---Quote: I do know one thing about me: I don't measure myself by others' expectations or let others define my worth.---Bio: Growing up as girl in the Bronx with parents from Puerto Rico, Sonia Sotomayor has said she felt like she didn’t belong anywhere. "I am always looking over my shoulder, wondering if I measure up," she has said.It was as a child that she first became interested in the law. At first, she wanted to be a police detective, but was told by a doctor that would be tough because of her diabetes (that was diagnosed when she was 8). She decided to become a judge.Sotomayor is now a Justice in the Supreme Court - it’s 111th justice in history, its third female justice and, its first Latina justice. Obama administration officials say Sotomayor has brought the most judicial experience to the Supreme Court than any justice confirmed in the past 70 years. One of Sotomayor's most famous rulings was praised by baseball fans; she ended a Major League Baseball strike in 1995. Sonia Sotomayor was born on June 25, 1954 in the Bronx, New York to Puerto Rican immigrants. Her father was a factory worker with a third-grade education-level and her mother was a nurse. Since age 7, she treated her Type 1 diabetes at her home in the housing projects of the South Bronx.Her mother encouraged success through education. Sotomayor earned a B.A. from Princeton University in 1976, graduating summa cum laude. This was a time when at Princeton, there were fewer than 30 Latinos. She earned a J.D. from Yale Law School, where she served as an editor of the Yale Law Journal. After law school, she served as Assistant District Attorney in the New York County District Attorney’s Office from 1975 to 1984. In 1991, President George H.W. Bush nominated her to the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York. Then, President Bill Clinton appointed Ms. Sotomayor to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; she served from 1998 to 2009. During this time, in Lin v. Gonzales, she ordered a renewed consideration of the asylum claims of Chinese women who experienced or were threatened with forced birth control, thereby raising awareness of the plights women face every day. In 2009, President Barack Obama nominated her as an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.---TAKE_THE_LEAD: Some doubted Justice Sotomayor, but she became a Supreme Court Justice! Why is it so important to define your own self-worth? ---Picture1: /images/photos/sotomayor_002_wide-ddfbddf9d464f3278d235f5233514a8a20734efd-s4.jpeg--Profile--Name: Tammy Baldwin---Year: 2012---Headline: 2012 - First openly gay woman in Congress ---Quote: All my life, the naysayers have told me that I can’t win because I’m a progressive .. because I’m a woman... even because I’m a lesbian.---Bio: Tammy served as a congresswoman from 1999-2013. In 2012, she was elected as a Senator. When Tammy was elected into congress 1998, she was the first woman elected to Congress from the state of Wisconsin. She is known to have a progressive voice. She strongly opposed the Iraq War and has been actively involved in the health care reform legislation. She is also a strong advocate for Women’s Right issues and supported initiatives such as the Equal Pay Act and Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.---Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/TammyBaldwin---Official_website: ---Picture1: /images/photos/120312-tammy-baldwin-839a.photoblog600.jpeg---TAKE_THE_LEAD: --Profile--Name: Tammy Duckworth---Headline: First Thai American and Female Combat Veteran Elected to Congress---Year: 2009 ---Bio: Tammy Duckworth is the first combat-injured female member of Congress in the history of the United States. She served in the US Army as a helicopter pilot, one of the few positions open to women with a chance at combat. In 2004, while fighting in Iraq, she was shot down by insurgents over the Tigris River and lost both of her legs.Representative Duckworth who is both bi-racial and trilingual, previously served as President Obama’s assistant secretary of veterans affairs. Her tough campaign for Congress (her opponent challenged her service in the army by saying she wasn’t a ‘true hero’) focused on the issues of jobs and social programs for the underprivileged. She remembers being on food stamps as a child when her father was in the military, and believes a social safety net should be in place for all who need it.Representative Duckworth challenges stereotypes about disability and disabled people and women in combat roles in the military.---TAKE_THE_LEAD:---Twitter: https://twitter.com/Tammy4Congress---Facebook:https://www.facebook.com/TammyForCongress---Picture1: /images/photos/301682-tammy-duckworth-cheered-in-democratic-national-convention-photos.jpeg--Profile--Name: Mazie Hirono---Year: 2012---Headline: 2012 - First Asian American woman elected to Senate ---Ethnicity: Japanese American---Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OApxtBAzi6Q---Quote:I think it’s very important to recognize that you can make a difference and clearly in my life. My mom changed my life and so what I recognize is that individuals can make a difference. So know that you can make a difference, two, take some risks, and show up and keep showing up.---Bio: Mazie Hirono was born to a mother of poor means. Mazie is selected by her school, Koko Head Elementary School, to pin the new 50th Star on the American Flag at a school assembly celebrating Hawaii's statehood. Despite humble beginnings, Mazie graduates with honors from Kaimuki High School where she is co-editor in chief of the school newspaper, The Bulldog. Mazie becomes the first in her family to graduate from college. Mazie is elected to the Hawai’i House of Representatives, beginning 14 years of distinguished service as a strong voice for consumers and working families. Mazie co-founds the bi-partisan House Women's Caucus to push reforms to help women and children. She continues the fight for quality early education, encouraging the Obama Administration to focus on improving preschool education.---Picture1: /images/photos/r-MAZIE-HIRONO-large570.jpeg---Official_website: http://www.senate.gov/senators/113th_Congress/Hirono_Mazie.htm---TAKE_THE_LEAD: